This document contains the text of the Creative Commons CC0 Public Domain
Dedication, and the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
Public License.

# Creative Commons CC0 Public Domain Dedication

CC0 1.0 Universal

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and
subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of
authorship and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for the
purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and scientific
works ("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear of later
claims of infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other works, reuse
and redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever and for any
purposes, including without limitation commercial purposes. These owners may
contribute to the Commons to promote the ideal of a free culture and the
further production of creative, cultural and scientific works, or to gain
reputation or greater distribution for their Work in part through the use and
efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation
of additional consideration or compensation, the person associating CC0 with a
Work (the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright
and Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily elects to apply CC0 to the Work
and publicly distribute the Work under its terms, with knowledge of his or her
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work and the meaning and intended legal
effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be
protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not limited
to, the following:

  i. the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display, communicate,
  and translate a Work;

  ii. moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);

  iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or likeness
  depicted in a Work;

  iv. rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work,
  subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;

  v. rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data in
  a Work;

  vi. database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
  European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
  protection of databases, and under any national implementation thereof,
  including any amended or successor version of such directive); and

  vii. other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the world
  based on applicable law or treaty, and any national implementations thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention of,
applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently, irrevocably and
unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of Affirmer's Copyright
and Related Rights and associated claims and causes of action, whether now
known or unknown (including existing as well as future claims and causes of
action), in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum
duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time
extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number of
copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without limitation
commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer makes
the Waiver for the benefit of each member of the public at large and to the
detriment of Affirmer's heirs and successors, fully intending that such Waiver
shall not be subject to revocation, rescission, cancellation, termination, or
any other legal or equitable action to disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work
by the public as contemplated by Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason be
judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the Waiver
shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into account
Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose. In addition, to the extent the Waiver
is so judged Affirmer hereby grants to each affected person a royalty-free,
non transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive, irrevocable and
unconditional license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights in
the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration
provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii)
in any current or future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any
purpose whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or
promotional purposes (the "License"). The License shall be deemed effective as
of the date CC0 was applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of the
License for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under
applicable law, such partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not
invalidate the remainder of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby
affirms that he or she will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining
Copyright and Related Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims
and causes of action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to
Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

  a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
  surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.

  b. Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or warranties
  of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied, statutory or otherwise,
  including without limitation warranties of title, merchantability, fitness
  for a particular purpose, non infringement, or the absence of latent or
  other defects, accuracy, or the present or absence of errors, whether or not
  discoverable, all to the greatest extent permissible under applicable law.

  c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
  that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without limitation
  any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work. Further, Affirmer
  disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary consents, permissions
  or other rights required for any use of the Work.

  d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a
  party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to this
  CC0 or use of the Work.

For more information, please see
http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

# Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To
the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are
granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms
and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of
benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available
under these terms and conditions.

### Section 1 – Definitions.

a. __Adapted Material__ means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar
Rights held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the
Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted
Material is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed
relation with a moving image.

b. __Adapter's License__ means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

c. __BY-SA Compatible License__ means a license listed at
[creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses](http://creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses),
approved by Creative Commons as essentially the equivalent of this Public
License.

d. __Copyright and Similar Rights__ means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

e. __Effective Technological Measures__ means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

f. __Exceptions and Limitations__ means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

g. __License Elements__ means the license attributes listed in the name of a
Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this Public License
are Attribution and ShareAlike.

h. __Licensed Material__ means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

i. __Licensed Rights__ means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

j. __Licensor__ means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

k. __Share__ means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction,
public display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication,
or importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways
that members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

l. __Sui Generis Database Rights__ means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11
March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded,
as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

m. __You__ means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

### Section 2 – Scope.

a. ___License grant.___

   1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor
      hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable,
      non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the
      Licensed Material to:

       A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and

       B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

   2. __Exceptions and Limitations.__ For the avoidance of doubt, where
      Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does
      not apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

   3. __Term.__ The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

   4. __Media and formats; technical modifications allowed.__ The Licensor
      authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats
      whether now known or hereafter created, and to make technical
      modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not
      to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical
      modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including
      technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological
      Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply making
      modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
      Material.

   5. __Downstream recipients.__

       A. __Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material.__ Every recipient of
       the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor
       to exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this
       Public License.

       B. __Additional offer from the Licensor – Adapted Material. Every
       recipient of Adapted Material from You automatically receives an offer
       from the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted
       Material under the conditions of the Adapter’s License You apply.

       C. __No downstream restrictions.__ You may not offer or impose any
       additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
       Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts
       exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed
       Material.

   6. __No endorsement.__ Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be
      construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use
      of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or
      granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive
      attribution as provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

b. ___Other rights.___

   1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed under this
      Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
      personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives
      and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the
      limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights,
      but not otherwise.

   2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public License.

   3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
      royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether
      directly or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable
      statutory or compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor
      expressly reserves any right to collect such royalties.

### Section 3 – License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.

a. ___Attribution.___

   1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form), You must:

       A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:

         i. identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any
         others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner
         requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

         ii. a copyright notice;

         iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

         iv. a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

         v. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent
         reasonably practicable;

       B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
       indication of any previous modifications; and

       C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License,
       and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
       License.

   2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
      manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the
      Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the
      conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes
      the required information.

   3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information
      required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

b. ___ShareAlike.___

In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share Adapted Material
You produce, the following conditions also apply.

1. The Adapter’s License You apply must be a Creative Commons license with the
   same License Elements, this version or later, or a BY-SA Compatible License.

2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the Adapter's
   License You apply. You may satisfy this condition in any reasonable manner
   based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share Adapted Material.

3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions
   on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, Adapted Material that
   restrict exercise of the rights granted under the Adapter's License You
   apply.

### Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to
Your use of the Licensed Material:

a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to extract,
reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of the
database;

b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in a
database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material, including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or a
substantial portion of the contents of the database.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace
Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include
other Copyright and Similar Rights.

### Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

a. __Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.__

b. __To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on
any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.__

c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

### Section 6 – Term and Termination.

a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights
licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then
Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a), it reinstates:

   1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is cured
      within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

   2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

   For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right the
   Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
   License.

c. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

d. Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

### Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.

a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.t stated herein are separate from and
independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.

### Section 8 – Interpretation.

a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be
interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of the
Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is deemed
unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no failure to
comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

> Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
> Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
> publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” Except
> for the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a
> Creative Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative
> Commons policies published at
> [creativecommons.org/policies](http://creativecommons.org/policies), Creative
> Commons does not authorize the use of the trademark “Creative Commons” or any
> other trademark or logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent
> including, without limitation, in connection with any unauthorized
> modifications to any of its public licenses or any other arrangements,
> understandings, or agreements concerning use of licensed material. For the
> avoidance of doubt, this paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.
>
> Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org
